




Plugins — Nextflow documentation




































Version dev (7c4538159) 

Stable
Edge
Latest





Get started

Overview
Installation
Your first script

Running pipelines

Command line
Configuration
Executors
Caching and resuming
Reports
Plugins
Core plugins
Using plugins
Offline usage



Developing pipelines

Scripts
Working with files
Processes
Channels
Workflows
Modules
Notifications
Secrets
Sharing pipelines
Migrating from DSL 1

Software dependencies

Git
Containers
Conda environments
Spack environments
Wave containers

Compute & storage

Amazon Web Services
Amazon S3
Azure
Google Cloud
Kubernetes
Fusion file system

Reference

CLI reference
Configuration options
Environment variables
Feature flags
Standard library
Process reference
Channel factories
Operators

Contributing

Overview
Workflow Diagram
Packages
Plugins

Tutorials

Using Nextflow with Flux
Understanding task resource metrics




            Nextflow is developed by:







Nextflow






Plugins

 Edit on GitHub







Plugins
Nextflow has a plugin system that allows the use of extensible components that are downloaded and installed at runtime.

Core plugins
The following functionalities are provided via plugin components, and they make part of the Nextflow core plugins:

nf-amazon: Support for Amazon Web Services.
nf-azure: Support for Microsoft Azure.
nf-cloudcache: Support for the cloud cache (see NXF_CLOUDCACHE_PATH under Environment variables).
nf-console: Implement Nextflow REPL console.
nf-google: Support for Google Cloud.
nf-tower: Support for Seqera Platform (formerly Tower Cloud).
nf-wave: Support for Wave containers service.



Using plugins
The core plugins do not require any configuration. They are automatically installed when the corresponding feature is requested by a Nextflow pipeline. You can still specify them as described below, e.g. if you want to pin the version of a plugin, however if you try to use a plugin version that isn’t compatible with your Nextflow version, Nextflow will fail.
You can enable a plugin by declaring it in your Nextflow configuration:
plugins {
    id 'nf-hello@0.1.0'
}


Or you can use the -plugins command line option:
nextflow run <pipeline> -plugins nf-hello@0.1.0


The plugin identifier consists of the plugin name and plugin version separated by a @. Multiple plugins can be specified in the configuration with multiple id declarations, or on the command line as a comma-separated list. When specifying plugins via the command line, any plugin declarations in the configuration file are ignored.
The plugin version is optional. If it is not specified, Nextflow will download the latest plugin version that is compatible with your Nextflow version. In general, it recommended that you not specify the plugin version unless you actually want to stick to that version, such as for offline usage.
The core plugins are documented in this documentation. For all other plugins, please refer to the plugin’s code repository for documentation and support.


Offline usage
To use Nextflow plugins in an offline environment:

Install Nextflow on a system with an internet connection. Do not use the “all” package, as this does not allow the use of custom plugins.
Download any additional plugins by running nextflow plugin install <pluginId,..>. Alternatively, simply run your pipeline once and Nextflow will download all of the plugins that it needs.
Copy the nextflow binary and $HOME/.nextflow folder to your offline environment.
In your Nextflow configuration file, specify each plugin that you downloaded, both name and version, including default plugins. This will prevent Nextflow from trying to download newer versions of plugins.

Nextflow caches the plugins that it downloads, so as long as you keep using the same Nextflow version and pin your plugin versions in your config file, Nextflow will use the locally installed plugins and won’t try to download them from the Internet.





 Previous
Next 



© Copyright 2024, Seqera Labs, S.L.


  Built with Sphinx using a
    theme
    provided by Read the Docs.
   











